.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH exult 6 "November 19, 2000"

.SH NAME
exult \- an engine for running Ultima usecode

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exult
.RI [ options ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B exult
is an engine built for running Ultima usecode. It started it's life as a map-browser for Ultima VII and has evolved from there, thanks to the open source-model, and contributions of time and code from many people.
.PP
You cannot use \fBexult\fP without the game-data files supplied by Origin, at present. A game-creator is planned, but has not yet been begun. In any case, Ultima VII is one of the best computer Role-Playing-Games made to-date at the time of this writing. Check your local computer dealer's bargain bin. Ultima VII (The Black Gate) can still be purchased for only a few dollars. Run out and buy it!
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.B exult
does not possess any terribly useful command-line options at present. At least, not any worth documenting.
.PP
.IP --help
This option shows what other command-line options are currently compiled in. Almost everything is controlled either by in-game menus or the configuration file however, so what options there are are usually only for the developers.

.SH FILES
See the README supplied with \fBexult\fP for information on this (hint: you NEED this configuration file to set up and run the game). [ TODO: Actually document the configuration file. ]

.SH NOTES
For more help and information with \fBexult\fP go to:
.IP http://exult.sourceforge.net/
.IP http://sourceforge.net/projects/exult/
.PP
Ultima itself remains the property of Origin Systems, Inc.
Ultima VII (The Black Gate) is copyright 1993 by Origin Systems, Inc.
The Exult Team is in no way affiliated with Origin Systems, Inc., Electronic Arts, and those companies probably neither know nor care about \fBexult\fP. Don't go bugging them if you have problems. Bug the Exult Team instead.

.SH BUGS
There are always bugs. Please report them at:
.IP http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=2335
(be sure to mention information about your operating system, and which version of \fBexult\fP you are running)

.SH AUTHOR
The Exult Team
