.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH exult 1

.SH NAME
exult_studio \- a world editor for Exult

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exult_studio
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B exult_studio
can be used to view graphics and map snippets of Exult games. Used in
conjunction with \fBexult\fP the map can be changed as well.

Currently it is not feasable to create a game from scratch. You must
point \fBexult_studio\fP at an existing game instead, either via the
\fB-d\fP commandline option (see below), or by selecting \fIOpen
static...\fP in the \fIFile\fP menu. The latter will pop up a file
requester, where you can choose an appropriate directory.

Once an appropriate directory has been located, a tree of game files
is displayed to the left of the main window, while the currently
selected file is viewed in detail to the right. At the moment, the
following types of files are supported:

.SS Shape files
\fIShapes\fP are the basic graphical elements of the game. Each shape has
one or more frames that typically represent different states or angles
of the same thing. E.g. a button shape could have frames for pressed,
and released; a character could have frames depicting her sitting,
standing up facing one way, or another, swinging a punch, etc.

When a shape file is selected, the right part of the main window will
show frame zero of the shapes contained therein. Shapes can be
selected by clicking, which will show there number, number of frames,
and name if known. Other frames can be viewed by changing the frame
number.

.SS Map files
These files contain so called \fIchunks\fP that serve as templates in
the final map. The chunks of the selected map file are shown to the
right of the main window.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIDIRECTORY\fP
specifies \fIDIRECTORY\fP as the game base directory.
.TP
\fB-x\fP \fIDIRECTORY\fP
tells \fBexult_studio\fR to look in DIRECTORY for its user-interface
specification. This option is only useful to developers.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/exult/exult_studio.glade
Default location of the user-interface specification.

.SH NOTES
For more help and information with \fBexult_studio\fP go to:
.IP http://exult.sourceforge.net/
.IP http://sourceforge.net/projects/exult/
.PP
Editing a copyrighted game may or may not be allowed. Please exercise caution.

.SH BUGS
Closing the directory selector (via Ok or Cancel) induces a crash.
Double clicking the directory works, just move the selector out of the
way after that.

Invalid arguments to commandline options will not be taken lightly.
Avoid that for now.

More bugs? Surely! Please report them at:
.ce
http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=2335
(Be sure to mention information about your operating system, and which
version of \fBexult_studio\fP you are running!)

.SH AUTHORS
The Exult Team

.SH HISTORY
\fBexult_studio\fP started it's life as a map-browser for Ultima VII
and has evolved from there, thanks to the open source-model, and
contributions of time and code from many people.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exult (6)
