.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH textpack 1 2002-03-24 Exult

.SH NAME
textpack \- Pack and unpack Flex files containing text

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B textpack -c
.I FLEXFILE
.RI [ TEXTFILE ]

.B textpack -x
.I FLEXFILE
.RI [ TEXTFILE ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Text Flex files are used for the storage of strings by the games
.I Exult
supports. While
.BR expack (1)
can operate on such files, using
.B textpack
to pack and unpack them is more comfortable.

The first parameter determines the mode of operation,
.B -c
stands for creation,
.B -x
for extraction.

.SS Creation
.I TEXTFILE
(or stdin if it is missing) is read and must conform to the file
format (see below).
.I FLEXFILE
will be created containing the strings from this input.

.SS Extraction
The strings contained in
.I FLEXFILE
are extracted and written to
.I TEXTFILE
(if given, stdout otherwise) in the file format documented below.

.SS File Format
Empty lines, and lines starting with a pound sign
.RB ( # )
are ignored. Other lines must begin with a number, followed by a colon
.RB ( : ).
The number is the index of the string and may be given either in
decimal, in octal prefixed with
.BR 0 ;
or in hexadecimal prefixed with
.BR 0x .
Anything following the colon belongs to the string and gets stored in
the Flex verbatim. Lines are limited in length to 1024 characters.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B textpack -x text.flx
Writes all the strings contained in
.B text.flx
to stdout in the format discussed above.

.TP
.B textpack -c text.flx strings.list
Reads
.B strings.list
and puts its contents into the Flex file
.B text.flx

.SS Example text file
# An example
.br
0:the zeroth string
.br
# strings may be empty
.br
1:
.br
# holes are allowed, strings 2 to 16 will be empty
.br
17:string seventeen
.br
# 13 hexadecimal == 19 decimal, 24 octal == 20 decimal
.br
0x13:nineteen
.br
024:twenty
.br
# numbers need not go up
.br
18:eighteen
.br
# this will overwrite the definition from above
.br
19:overwritten

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Robert Bihlmeyer. It may be freely
redistributed and modified under the terms of the GNU General Public
License version 2 or higher.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR expack "(1), " exult (6)

